# Predicting-the-salary-of-adults-in-US
For this project, the census data with the attributes of US citizens such as type of occupation, age, education, Country, gender, race, salary, etc. The dataset consists of 15 attributes about the citizens of the US and 48842 records about the same. For the organizations to ensure equal pay, a model needs to be built to see how accurately the low income from high income citizens can be classified. I applied the KNN algorithm to the data set and checked the accuracy of the model. This analysis and the model will allow us to understand which attributes contribute to affluency and how we can improve policies in the US.
In analysis, I executed the KNN algorithm to discover the similarities between our datasets. We have been given US statistics information about qualities of US residents (occupation, instruction, sex, race). I decided and made a model that will permit us to see every one of the attributes thus we can improve the strategies in the USA. Our dataset consists of 14 variables and 1 target variable (income). While taking a glance at the data we found out that the data set is without any headers. So I added a header to the columns in order to be clear about each and every column. Then while glancing at the dataset I found out that some columns(workclass, occupation and native_country) had ‘?’ value. I converted all the ‘?’ values to NULL values and then replaced all the null values with ‘mode’ of that particular column. Then while doing EDA I found out that ‘marital_status’ and ‘relationship’ had no impact on our analysis so decided to drop the columns. Then for modelling purposes we converted all our string variables to numeric using the LabelEncoder. Then to find the relation, applied correlation matrix on the converted dataset. After looking at the relation of variable with target variable I decided to remove 2 more variables from the data i.e. ‘fnlwgt’ and native_country. I then splitted the data column into X and y variables where X contains information for the predictor variables and y contains the target variable i.e. income. I divided dataset into training and test sets with 80% train data set and 20% test data set and imported the sklearn package and applied the KNN algorithm on the dataset. Implemented the KNeighbour classifier by fitting our train and test data and changing different values of K from 1 to 10. Then evaluated the models performance and calculated the accuracy by identifying the best fit for our model. It has the highest accuracy when k=5 having 83.9%. If we go beyond this k value it leads to the problem of overfitting. 
